# Score Predictor for Last Mile Logistics

Every day the number of deliveries of food, packages and other products direct to the homes of consumers is increasing. The global and national logistics networks are very complex but interestingly the most difficult part of a product delivery is down to “the last mile”.  Some estimates belief that up to 30% of the costs associated with deliveries are incurred in “the last mile”. This is not to mention the challenges around transport congestion, crowded cities, management of extreme weather events and energy reduction. One of th reasons why the last mile is difficult in delivery operations is how complex it is for a delivery driver to actually find the customer address: is it down a one-way street, does the customer live in an apartment block, is the delivery address a business which is opened/closed, what are the parking restrictions, are there any congestion charges, etc. In this project, urban spatial data in OpenStreetMap for a selection of cities around the world is considered. This project develops a set of metrics or measures on how complex ‘the last mile’ is for these cities. This will help answer questions such as ‘is city X more complex than city Y for deliveries of fast food?’. The project is flexible to allow easy analysis of additional locations from OSM. An important part of this project is the completion of a thorough literature review of current work done in this area of geocomputation. The project is implemented in R with Shiny for interactive UI and PostGIS database.
